# Digital Scholarship Portfolio: Antonio DiGiovanni

Welcome to my online portfolio for IASC 2P02

## Interactive Study Guide

Explore my interactive study guide [here](2P02Team1InteractiveStudyGuide.html).

## Interactive Genealogy

Explore my interactive genealogy here.

# Speculative Fiction

## How VAR Could Hvae Changed History!
  Taking you back 29 years ago to July 30, 1966 where the much-anticipated World Cup finals between England and West Germany was taking place at Wembley Stadium. It was a very intense game that ended up going into extra time and the game was decided in the 101st minute by a shot coming from England's players Geoff Hurst which saw the shot ricochet off the cross bar downwards onto the line. Fast forwarding ourselves to 1982 where we see West Germany involved in another controversial World Cup game. It was West Germany vs France in the Semi Finals of the world cup and French substitute Patrick Battiston went charging into the box to chase down a loose ball just to be met by German keeper Harald Schumacher who went into the challenge by twisting his body and causing life threatening injuries to the French player. Even though it was a clear and obvious penalty kick, the referee awarded Germany a goal kick instead and they went on to win the game because of it. In the very next World Cup only four years later we are met with one of the most, if not the most, controversial non calls in soccer history. Diego Maradona is one of the greatest players to ever play the game but is also one of the most controversial because of what happened in the 1986 World Cup quarterfinals against England where Maradona used his hand to score a goal to put his team in front. This action is now dubbed "The Hand of God" because of how pivotal it was and the impact it has of the sport. 
  Fast tracking to present day, the year is 1995 and the soccer world has gone through a lot of controversy in recent years which is why FIFA has been working on a new technology over the past couple years and will be implementing this new technology called Video Assistant Referee (VAR) in the upcoming season. VAR is compiled of a three-person referee team - the video assistant referee, his assistant and a replay operator. These three referees will be located in a video operating room to review certain plays within a match to help the referee on the field to make as little human errors as possible. The purpose of VAR isn't to interfere with every call and disrupt the beautiful game but to be used in decisive moments that the referee may have missed and to take the play into consideration on if he wants to change his on field judgement or not. The only time the video assistant referee will only come into play when certain scenarios like a goal, penalty, red card possibility and mistaken identity come into question. In cohesion with VAR, goal-line technology will come into play as well to ensure that there is no controversy involving if a ball actually fully crossed the line or not just like in the 1966 game between England and West Germany. 
  Tennis first implemented a system in 1974 called the Electroline-control computer which used plastic pressure sensors under the court to notify the umpire if the ball was out of bounds or not. This method was effective but not feasible for large-scale roll-out and was later changed in 1980 with the introduction of Cyclops. Cyclops uses light beams that projects themselves across the court and if the ball lands outside the umpire will hear a loud beep notifying them and the audience that the wall is not in play. This same technology will be implemented within the soccer nets to notify the ref if the ball fully crossed the line or not. As for VAR, the referees inside the video operating room will be able to view multiple angles from the cameras capturing the game and then will relay the same clips to the on field referee via a monitor on the side of the field that he will be able to view if they think there is a decision that should be changed. 

## Micro Essay
  My short story takes us back in time to a reinvented world in 1995 which sees soccer take a technological leap. Soccer is one of the most popular sports in the world and has always been lacking behind every other sport in terms of implementing technology to reduce human error. Video Assistant referees weren't implemented into the sport until 2018 and goal-line technology until 2016 where as you have sports like tennis that have been using technology to enhance the quality of decisions being made since the 70s. Implementing such technology in the 90s would see much greater improvements of it in the future because the soccer federation would know how to innovate on it year after year to make it as close to perfect as possible instead of now having to play catch up to other sports that have had such technologies for a while now. "It needs continuously to renew itself in relation to emerging questions concerning digital culture, memory and technical media". This quotation helps to amplify the reasoning of my story because it looks at the idea of a field of study, in this particular case being media archeology, and how it must be innovated and revisited as technology and history move forward. If this technology was implemented in the 90s our conception of soccer history would be changed forever because things like digital culture, memory and technical media would have significantly impacted the type of answers we end up asking ourselves today, simply due to the lived experiences at that moment. When looking at media archeology, the idea of viewing things from the middle position (between past and future) means that as time moves forward, so does the middle point. Overall, this story is to help build a different perspective on how media archeology could be used to view how we perceive to soccer world as we know it today.
# Interactive Timeline
